>> Melkey: So we just created
our new token SQL table, and
we run the migration to get that working.
Next, let's go ahead and
write a package that will allow
us to generate these tokens.
So in internal, go ahead and make a new
one called tokens, a new folder called
tokens, and then within tokens,
make a new file called tokens.go.
It's not gonna be in store
is going to be in internal.
So within internal,
make a new folder called tokens, and
it was in that make a new
file called tokens.go.
Because I want it to be its own separate
package and not part of the store package.
So here we can do package tokens,
as opposed to package store.
Either would be fine.
The structure I'm choosing
is gonna be packaged tokens,
even though we're going to be going
back into the tokens.go file in store..
>> Melkey: Okay, cool.
So again, this is gonna require a struct,
so we can do type Token struct,
and it's gonna have the field that we
just basically saw in our SQL table.
So first, we're gonna have a plain
text which is going to be a string.
We gonna have a json representation
of that, and just say token.
>> Melkey: Okay, I'm gonna have the hash,
which is gonna be a slice of bytes.
Excuse me.
Json, we wanna not pass this around
to our client, so let's omit that.
Or specifically, just dash it out so
it does not get sent out.
We have our UserID,
there's gonna be an int.
We also do not want to reveal who is
calling this or what users calling this.
They should know if they
are the ones truly calling it.
We do not need to pass any ID or
any PII text.
Next we'll have an expiry,
we'll make this time.Duration, okay?
Or sorry, time.Time.
>> Melkey: We'll use a duration
function after, okay?
Here we'll pass in expiry.
>> Melkey: And
then scope which is going to be a string.
And again, the caller does not need
to know the scope of this at all.
>> Melkey: [COUGH] So
we have our token struck, and
instead of making like a constructor,
we're just gonna have one function
that just generates the token, okay?
So, it's gonna be pretty
straightforward function.
All it's going to do is from nothing,
we're gonna create this token, and
then that token will be
inserted into the database.
So here we'll do, yeah?
>> Speaker 2: You got a missing.
>> Melkey: Right here?
Hell yeah, thank you.
Okay, so here we'll do func GenerateToken.
Okay, and it's not a method receive,
run token.
You may think that, but
if you think about it,
we need to first create a token to
have methods on the token, right?
And because this function will be
responsible creating the token,
it needs to come first,
chicken versus the egg.
So here, we'll have user ID,
it's gonna be an int.
It's gonna have also a time to live,
which will be time.duration.
And to have a scope,
which is gonna be a string, and
this is going to return a pointer to
our token and an error, all right?
So let's go ahead and
assemble our token here.
So let's make the address
of token like so, UserID.
We'll just pass in userID directly.
Expiry is gonna be time.Now.
>> Melkey: .Now, okay?
And we'll do add the TTL,
the time to live.
So whatever time is .now, if you want
your token slip for 24, hours, 10 hours,
one hour, one minute, we're basically
saying whatever the time is now,
add that TTL to it, okay?
So we know what timestamp
this will expire at.
>> Melkey: And
also the time package can go is very nice.
then the scope will be the scope, okay?
Here we're gonna make an empty
bytes of 32 characters.
So here, we'll use the make function
like so, we'll have our slice of bytes,
okay, and then we'll put 02 bytes like, so
>> Melkey: Next,
we're actually going to
use the rand package.
So random, this is built into go.
We'll do rand.read,
I'm gonna pass in those empty bytes.
>> Melkey: Just gonna basically
fill in the slice of bytes,
which is the random assortment
of random characters.
>> Melkey: If the error does not equal
to nil, this is gonna be an internal
server error, meaning the random library
or our system something's going on.
So we can just do return nil and
error like so, okay?
And then for token, plain text,
what we're gonna use is base 32.
>> Melkey: Standard encoding, okay?
This is gonna be us actually encoding
the plain text password into our token.
>> Melkey: Gonna say with padding.
>> Melkey: Base 32, no padding.
And then we're gonna do encode to string,
we're gonna pass in the empty
bytes like this, okay?
And just to kind of explain what this is,
so with padding creates a new encoding,
identical with this, except with
a specific padding character or
no pattern to disable padding.
So padding is typically seen as like for
UTF-8.
Sometimes I believe it's the extra equal
sign at the end if there's an empty
character, empty slot.
So that's what the width padding does.
It just pads up if you send a value that
doesn't fully meet the length of what you
set your encoder to be, it just pads it
with, typically the equal sign at the end.
>> Melkey: Okay, so
now we have the token, plain text.
What we're going to do is create our hash,
which means sha256 should
bring it into crypto/sha256.
>> Melkey: Then we're
gonna use the sum 256.
Functions returns a shot
256 check some of the data.
All of this, I'm just being honest, is us
not creating our own hashing algorithm.
This is built in to go the shot
256 library, the crypto library,
and the random library.
It's just us essentially, we're rolling
our own auth using algorithm hashing
tools created by much smarter people
than me, and in use by a lot of people.
So again, I think rolling your own auth,
some people think this is the part where
you're actually making your own algorithm,
like doing all this stuff.
That's not really what it is.
We're leveraging tools,
sometimes external tools,
but because of, I guess, the richness
of the ghost standard library,
we can use these tools
that are available to us.
>> Melkey: Okay, so here we can
just pass in a slice of bytes, and
then what we're gonna pass in
is token.Plaintext, all right?
And then here all gonna
say is token.Hash like so
is going to be hash,
bring in that entire slice,
and here we're gonna return token and nil.
And so one thing I realized that I may
have forgot to mention is the scope.
Tokens, the way we are using them,
could have many different scopes.
We can have authentication scope, but
you can also have authorization scope.
You could have mod scope, admin scope,
grandfathered in scope, right?
And these are just basically levels of
privilege that we can assign to a user
communicated through tokens that can
be used across our application, okay?
So here in our instance,
because we're using authentication,
we can create a const, all right?
And this const could be
called ScopeAuth for
right now we can just make this equal
the string authentication like, so.
Cool, so
now we have a method of creating tokens.
So generate token, and
we have the token struct,
we can then go back to our store here.
And within store,
we can finally create tokens.go.
And the reason why I didn't create the
other file in the store is because that
other file, as we just saw,
has nothing to do with the database.
And so for me, I like that separation
here this file in particular,
let me just quickly spin
it up package store.
This is gonna be our tokens.go
talking directly to our database.
So we'll be inserting those values.
So I thought it makes more
sense to separate them.
But if I'm being honest,
you can't keep them in one file.
I'll leave it up to you if
you want to change it up and
whatever makes more sense to you, okay?
So in this case,
we don't actually need to create a struct,
because we already have it
from our tokens package.
But we can do is not a func, but
we can create a type to handle
our Postgres token store, right?
So we can do PostgresTokenStore.
This is gonna be a struct, and
it's gonna have a field db.
It's gonna be of type sql.DB which
you've seen plenty of times.
With this,
we can create our new constructor.
So func new Postgres token store, okay?
It's gonna take a db like so,
it's going to return a pointer
to Postgres token store like so,
and we can return the postgres
token store db, all right?
This should be pretty familiar
to us already, and with a store,
we can also do something called
type token store as an interface.
>> Melkey: Now, the chances of changing
the underlying structure of a token store
is still fairly high because all really
doing is changing that constructor,
that new Postgres token struct, so
it's as equal across the board, right?
So that's why you would it's not
necessarily saying you're changing
from a sha256, algorithm token, or
even stateful versus stateless.
All this is saying is you no longer
use Postgres to store your token.
So that's why it's still applicable
to have a interface on it as well.
The methods on this interface
are gonna be token,
which is going to be of type token,
which can do token.to bring it in.
>> Melkey: I think my editor
is gonna do it for me.
So here, let's just move
all this github.com/melkey.
Let me remind myself of what it is.
FemProject, cool, and that's a little
helpful thing if you forget like me.
>> Melkey: Okay, and then it's just slash-
>> Speaker 2: Is it tokens?
>> Melkey: It's token, cool.
Yeah, so don't forget the internal and
don't forget the the plural of tokens.
Okay, cool, so then over here,
it's not token, it's tokens.
And then we can put token like that.
>> Melkey: Okay, so insert this is gonna
be what's actually gonna be communicating
with the database.
We're gonna be taking
that generate token and
actually inserting it into the database.
All we really need this
is to have an error, and
then two more methods will be
createNewToken, all right?
And this gonna include
information like the userID,
which we know is gonna be an int,
ttl, which is time.Duration.
It's also gonna have a scope
which is a string, and
this is going to return a pointer
to tokens.token and an error, okay?
And then one more method we can have
is deleteAllTokensForUser, right?
And let's say someone gets hacked.
Let's say someone wants to just delete
all their tokens they haven't been on for
a long time.
They got banned, whatever it is,
you can just easily make a function which
takes user ID int and scope string.
You can do error like so.
>> Melkey: So we have our three methods we
know exactly what we need to implement.
Let's go ahead and do that.
So Postgres token store,
let's do CreateNewToken.
We'll start with this and like,
the signature already tells us,
we just have to user ID.
It's gonna be int.
>> Melkey: Ttl is time.Duration
scope is string..
This is gonna return a tokens.Token and
an error.
>> Melkey: Okay?
>> Melkey: So here we can do token
error is gonna be tokens.GenerateToken.
I'm gonna pass in the user ID,
the ttl and the scope.
>> Melkey: I'm gonna check the errors,
we're gonna return nil and error,
if there is one.
Otherwise we're gonna do error
is going to be t.Insert,
even though it doesn't exist just yet.
But since we know the token signature,
insert is going to take our tokens,
we're gonna drop it in here, and
we can say, return token error.
>> Melkey: Next method,
let's do Postgres token store.
Let's go ahead and just create the insert
one since we've already referenced it.
All right, so token is going to
take token tokens.Token, like so.
And it's going to return the error or
a error, okay?
And here we're gonna create our
query insert into tokens, okay?
And here we're gonna be inserting hash_id,
expiry, and scope
>> Melkey: Values are gonna be 1,
2, 3, and 4, like that, okay?
And very easy, we can just do
error is gonna be t.db.Exec.
Pass in the query and
the four values we need, token and
the orderly appear If you're in,
so token.Hash,
token.UserID, token.Expiry,
and token.Scope.
>> Speaker 2: For the t.insert?
>> Melkey: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Was that insert,
it's a Postgres token store,
which doesn't have the insert on it.
>> Melkey: That's what
we're building right now.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, so
it's just not there yet.
>> Melkey: But yeah, the,
the function building now is the insert
on the t.Postgres token store.
>> Speaker 2: Gotcha.
>> Melkey: Yeah.
>> Melkey: Yeah, so
now if we do return error and you save,
your error should go away on the t.insert.
Because now the Postgres token store
struct does have a method on it called
Insert.
Rewriting this last function, so
we do t we have PostgresTokenStore, and
the last function you wanna create is
going to be DeleteAllTokensForUser.
This is gonna take a userID of type int
and the scope, which going to be a string.
It's going to turn an error for us.
And quickly create a query like so.
It's gonna be DELETE FROM tokens.
Oops, where scope equals
the first value passed in.
>> Melkey: And user_id = the second value.
>> Melkey: Then we can just
execute this with t.db.Exec,
pass in the query, pass in the scope
first, and then the userID.
And then we can go ahead and
return error like so.